ALLURE_REPORTS_README.md, before:

# Enhanced Allure Reporting System

This enhanced system provides comprehensive test reporting for the VIPER components with historical tracking and CodeCov integration.

## Features

### 🔍 Individual Component Reports
- **TestVIPER Integration**: Workflow integration tests
- **ToolVIPER**: ToolVIPER component tests  
- **XRadio**: Xarray radio astronomy data IO tests
- **GraphVIPER**: Tests for Dask based MapReduce for Multi-Xarray datasets
- **AstroVIPER**: Radio interferometry data processing tests

### 📊 Enhanced Capabilities
- **Allure History Preservation**: Maintains test trend data across runs
- **CodeCov Badge Integration**: Direct links to coverage reports for each component
- **Back Navigation**: Easy navigation from individual reports to summary
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for desktop and mobile viewing
- **Real-time Statistics**: Live test and coverage metrics

## Architecture

### Workflow Integration
The system integrates with GitHub Actions to:
1. Clone all component repositories
2. Run pytest tests with Allure reporting for each component
3. Preserve and restore historical test data
4. Generate individual Allure reports with custom styling
5. Create a unified summary dashboard
6. Deploy to `gh-pages-testing` branch for staging

### File Structure
```
allure-report/
├── index.html                 # Main summary dashboard
├── testviper/                 # Individual component reports
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── history/              # Historical trend data
│   └── plugins/              # Custom back-link functionality
├── toolviper/
├── xradio/
├── graphviper/
├── astroviper/
└── allure-history/           # Preserved history for next run
    ├── testviper/
    ├── toolviper/
    ├── xradio/
    ├── graphviper/
    └── astroviper/
```

## Scripts

### enhanced_report_generator.py
Generates individual Allure reports for each component with:
- Historical data preservation
- Custom back-link navigation
- Environment metadata
- Error handling for missing components

### enhanced_summary_generator.py
Creates the main dashboard with:
- Component test statistics
- Coverage information with visual progress bars
- CodeCov badge integration
- Overall project metrics

## Configuration

### Component Configuration
Each component is configured with:
```python
{
    'name': 'component_name',
    'display_name': 'Display Name',
    'description': 'Component description',
    'path': 'relative/path',
    'test_path': 'tests',
    'icon': '🔬',
    'codecov_url': 'https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/component_name',
    'codecov_badge': 'https://codecov.io/gh/casangi/component_name/branch/main/graph/badge.svg'
}
```

### GitHub Actions Workflow
The workflow is configured to:
- Run on all branches for testing
- Deploy to `gh-pages-testing` branch
- Preserve history between runs
- Handle missing components gracefully

## Deployment

### Branches
- **Source**: Any branch (for testing)
- **Deployment**: `gh-pages-testing` (staging environment)
- **Production**: Manual promotion to `gh-pages` when ready

### Access URLs
- **Staging**: `https://casangi.github.io/testviper/` (from gh-pages-testing)
- **Individual Reports**: `https://casangi.github.io/testviper/{component_name}/`

## History Management

The system automatically:
1. **Preserves**: Copies history from previous deployments
2. **Restores**: Applies history to new test runs for trend analysis
3. **Updates**: Saves new history data for future runs

### History Structure
```
allure-history/
└── {component_name}/
    ├── history.json          # Test execution trends
    ├── trend.json           # Performance trends  
    └── categories.json      # Test categorization
```

## CodeCov Integration

Each component card includes:
- **Live Badge**: Real-time coverage status from CodeCov
- **Direct Link**: Click-through to detailed coverage reports
- **Hover Effects**: Visual feedback for interactive elements

### CodeCov URLs
- **TestVIPER**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/testviper
- **ToolVIPER**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/toolviper  
- **XRadio**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/xradio
- **GraphVIPER**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/graphviper
- **AstroVIPER**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/astroviper

## Customization

### Adding New Components
1. Add component configuration to both scripts
2. Ensure component repository has `tests/` directory
3. Update workflow if special dependencies needed

### Styling Modifications  
- **Summary Page**: Edit `enhanced_summary_generator.py` CSS section
- **Individual Reports**: Modify `add_back_link_to_report()` function
- **Icons**: Update component configuration icons

### Testing Locally
```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install pytest allure-pytest coverage

# Run enhanced report generation
python scripts/enhanced_report_generator.py

# Generate summary page
python scripts/enhanced_summary_generator.py

# View results
open allure-report/index.html
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Missing History**: First run will have no history - this is normal
2. **Component Not Found**: Check repository structure and paths
3. **Allure CLI Issues**: Ensure Allure is properly installed and in PATH
4. **Permission Errors**: Check GitHub token permissions for deployment

### Debug Information
Each script provides verbose output including:
- Component processing status
- Test execution results
- Report generation progress
- File creation confirmations

## Future Enhancements

### Planned Features
- **Test Execution Time Trends**: Track performance over time
- **Failure Analysis**: Categorize and trend test failures
- **Environment Comparison**: Compare results across different environments
- **Slack/Email Notifications**: Alert on test failures or coverage drops
- **API Integration**: Programmatic access to test metrics

### Performance Optimizations
- **Parallel Test Execution**: Run component tests in parallel
- **Incremental Reports**: Only regenerate changed components

Commit message:

Modified workflow to deploy allure reports to gh-pages. Modified to run with python 3.13. Modified workflow to trigger only on merges to main. Updated Allure documentation.

ALLURE_REPORTS_README.md, after:

# Enhanced Allure Reporting System

This enhanced system provides comprehensive test reporting for Integration tests of the VIPER eco-system and its individual components with historical tracking and CodeCov integration.

## Features

### 🔍 Individual Component Reports
- **TestVIPER Integration**: Workflow integration tests
- **ToolVIPER**: ToolVIPER component tests  
- **XRadio**: Xarray radio astronomy data IO tests
- **GraphVIPER**: Tests for Dask based MapReduce for Multi-Xarray datasets
- **AstroVIPER**: Radio interferometry data processing tests

### 📊 Enhanced Capabilities
- **Allure History Preservation**: Maintains test trend data across runs
- **CodeCov Badge Integration**: Direct links to coverage reports for each component
- **Back Navigation**: Easy navigation from individual reports to summary
- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for desktop and mobile viewing
- **Real-time Statistics**: Live test and coverage metrics

## Architecture

### Workflow Integration
The system integrates with GitHub Actions to:
1. Clone all component repositories
2. Run pytest tests with Allure reporting for each component
3. Preserve and restore historical test data
4. Generate individual Allure reports with custom styling
5. Create a unified summary dashboard
6. Deploy to `gh-pages` under directory main
7. Top-level index.html with summary and link to component reports

### File Structure
```
allure-report/
├── index.html                 # Main summary dashboard
├── testviper/                 # Individual component reports
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── history/              # Historical trend data
│   └── plugins/              # Custom back-link functionality
├── toolviper/
├── xradio/
├── graphviper/
├── astroviper/
└── allure-history/           # Preserved history for next run
    ├── testviper/
    ├── toolviper/
    ├── xradio/
    ├── graphviper/
    └── astroviper/
```

## Scripts

### enhanced_report_generator.py
Generates individual Allure reports for each component with:
- Historical data preservation
- Custom back-link navigation
- Environment metadata
- Error handling for missing components

### enhanced_summary_generator.py
Creates the main dashboard with:
- Component test statistics
- Coverage information with visual progress bars
- CodeCov badge integration
- Overall project metrics

## Configuration

### Component Configuration
Each component is configured with:
```python
{
    'name': 'component_name',
    'display_name': 'Display Name',
    'description': 'Component description',
    'path': 'relative/path',
    'test_path': 'tests',
    'icon': '🔬',
    'codecov_url': 'https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/component_name',
    'codecov_badge': 'https://codecov.io/gh/casangi/component_name/branch/main/graph/badge.svg'
}
```

### GitHub Actions Workflow
The workflow is configured to:
- Run on all branches for testing
- Deploy to `gh-pages` branch
- Preserve history between runs
- Handle missing components gracefully

## Deployment

### Main
- **Source**: Any branch (for testing)
- **Deployment to Production**: `gh-pages`

### Access URLs
- **Staging**: `https://casangi.github.io/testviper/` (from gh-pages-testing)
- **Individual Reports**: `https://casangi.github.io/testviper/{component_name}/`

## History Management

The system automatically:
1. **Preserves**: Copies history from previous deployments
2. **Restores**: Applies history to new test runs for trend analysis
3. **Updates**: Saves new history data for future runs

### History Structure
```
allure-history/
└── {component_name}/
    ├── history.json          # Test execution trends
    ├── trend.json           # Performance trends  
    └── categories.json      # Test categorization
```

## CodeCov Integration

Each component card includes:
- **Live Badge**: Real-time coverage status from CodeCov
- **Direct Link**: Click-through to detailed coverage reports
- **Hover Effects**: Visual feedback for interactive elements

### CodeCov URLs
- **TestVIPER**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/testviper
- **ToolVIPER**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/toolviper  
- **XRadio**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/xradio
- **GraphVIPER**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/graphviper
- **AstroVIPER**: https://app.codecov.io/gh/casangi/astroviper

## Customization

### Adding New Components
1. Add component configuration to both scripts
2. Ensure component repository has `tests/` directory
3. Update workflow if special dependencies needed

### Styling Modifications  
- **Summary Page**: Edit `enhanced_summary_generator.py` CSS section
- **Individual Reports**: Modify `add_back_link_to_report()` function
- **Icons**: Update component configuration icons

### Testing Locally
```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install pytest allure-pytest coverage

# Run enhanced report generation
python scripts/enhanced_report_generator.py

# Generate summary page
python scripts/enhanced_summary_generator.py

# View results
open allure-report/index.html
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Missing History**: First run will have no history - this is normal
2. **Component Not Found**: Check repository structure and paths
3. **Allure CLI Issues**: Ensure Allure is properly installed and in PATH
4. **Permission Errors**: Check GitHub token permissions for deployment

### Debug Information
Each script provides verbose output including:
- Component processing status
- Test execution results
- Report generation progress
- File creation confirmations
